I believe that the word that you used was
interrelating these ideas. Would you just say a
few words about that, please? Right. Well, for
example, if we look at aspects of the marine
environment, take this thing I'm thinking about
right now, ocean disposal of dredged material, we
can analyze the water column for the metals
contained as normal background and then look at it
from the standpoint of the metals being
introduced, which could be toxic to marine
organisms. And we can then look at the nature of the
water itself and the effect it's having on these
metals, oxidizing them. Do they become more or
less stable? And we can take all of the pieces apart
and enumerate these. But it isn't until we attempt
to say what does this all mean and try to put it
together into a working system that we really feel
we're achieving anything today. And this is what I
call synthesis.
OK. Another question I have is with reference to
your discussion of the potential of the ocean. Is
the biological potential of the ocean really as
low as you say? For instance, as you say, it's an
auxiliary spinoff from the land. Is our ocean
technology advanced enough yet really to
accurately predict the future of the marine food
production in the future? Take, for example, the
lush production that we have in parts of Israel
once we had a desert. In other words, are we at a
stage where we can really say what the potential
will be? And so when you're talking about the
potential of the ocean being low, are you talking
about long range or in the short range? Well, for
example, I'm talking about long range, I think.
I'm talking about the ultimate. That's my
opinion. Now, it is an opinion. It's certainly not
a fact. But if you want to take the time yourself to
look at an analysis of mid-Pacific water and try to
decide what nutrients are there and what could be
sustained by those nutrients, knowing what the
relationship is between phosphate say and the
amount of material you can build of an organism and
if you've got something on the way of exchange
rates for this material from the deeper water i
think you can calculate what it could produce and
it turns out it's not as much as you might want to
think now
I'll admit, there is a giant mid-Pacific gyre
where this slow-moving stuff is going around. And
probably not as much exchange as we'd like to
believe. But it is for reasons of this type, taking
that nature is an omniscient object, kind of not
only innovator but operator in a sense it's an
opportunist it takes advantage of what is there to
build more I think this is the whole basis for
evolution as a matter of fact progressive
evolution I think the only way you can define it is
organisms that have found a way to utilize matter
and energy that hasn't been utilized up to then And
as a consequence, I think that the same is true
here, that you would expect if nature could do it,
it would have done it by now. And it's not producing
very much there. Now, that is what I'm basing it on.
It may be awfully shaky ground, but I simply feel
that it's just not advisable to hold out this hope
to people that there is going to be a millennium
when we can harvest the sea effectively. I can't
see how you wall it off. And I can see you could do it.
But Lord, the output of energy and materials would
be so great that the return would be meaningless. I
think the land is still the place. Oh, I'd love to
think it could do more. And indeed, it can do more.
But I do not believe for its area that it will ever
produce as effectively as the land.
OK. Thank you. I'd like to go on to a different topic
now. In terms of systematics, what is your opinion
of the new definition of families, genera, and
species which are evolving based on mathematical
indices such as the percent similarity index and
these kinds of indices as opposed to the classical
morphological approach to systematics?
All right. I consider these to systematics about
as I would the microscope to optics.
All these things do is extend one's penetration
into the subject. But it still leaves judgment as
the basis for decision making. And I do not believe
that you can find a mathematical or numerical
system that will ever replace it. Now, I believe
these are important tools, and I believe they give
us insights. But, for example, I was examining
about 400 species of organisms living on the
continental slope.
trying to look at their distributions, ordering
their distributions vertically,
bathymetrically, so to speak, and determining
whether or not they actually were sort of living in
assemblages or communities, in the very loose
sense of the term. And I came up with certain
clusters. Now, there are statistical methods for
finding these clusters, and we didn't vary at all.
If it's set up, it saves a lot of time to go through
the statistical approach. And it's very nice as a
corroboration verification. But I think you
still have to have the judgment, because it's
man's mind that made the system in the first place.
Sure, I believe these are good tools. But just as
the microscope extends your vision into this
subject, and permits your senses to probe a little
more deeply into it. So these systems permit you to
grasp, perhaps, relationships you didn't see as
easily. But I still think you have to make up the
mind as to what the decision will be after you do it.
Is it a new species or not? What percentage
similarity should there be? What should the ratio
be to be significant? Arbitrarily, there would be
an assumption It's got to be over 50% or 30% is
enough, okay? I think this is true. Now, certainly
I think, though, that there's some splendid
statistical treatments today for ecological
science. And we are using those very extensively
in my work with the myofuna. And I think that it's
there that
Some people, now certainly there are not many, but
some people get the idea that cause and effect can
be approached through statistics. It can, but it
can't prove it,
that there is a cause and effect. You can get a high
correlation between this and this, and you'd like
to think, God, this causes this, But that
statistics never tells you that. You've still got
to make up your own mind, is it or not. And some of
it's just plain garbage, you know, when you come
out of it. You know it's garbage that the computer
has given you. It says, hey, look, you've got a
beautiful relationship here. But that's all it
is, just a relationship. There's no causation
involved. It took me a little time to think of that.
I figured out that... Boy, you just fall right into
that trap, though. So human judgment is the
ultimate... I think so. It's a magnificent thing.
I
wish politicians used
it more. We'd like for you to evaluate for us what
you consider the significance of the work you've
done in the field of family organisms. Fouling
organism? Oh. Well, I'll tell you. I'll take an
approach to that that's unorthodox.
The only thing we did was an ad hoc study, or ad hoc if
you want,
of fouling in one area of the Gulf of Mexico. And we
did it because of the need for the Navy to know at the
time what kinds and how many following organisms
would develop on various pieces of equipment they
might wish to put out into the ocean and how long it
would take before they were fouled up. And so we did
that. And we came up with some answers. which
seemed to be satisfactory, and they needed to know
whether one particular antifoulant, which was
relatively new then, which was an organotin
compound, whether or not this would work to
protect the devices where fouling would be a major
problem. Okay. Now, however, as a result of that
study, I think, although... It is not as well
received. The important thing was how much
fouling organisms, so-called, can tell us about
the marine environment. And the reason we call
them fouling organisms is because they are
growing on surfaces that man doesn't want them to
grow on. artificial surfaces, ships, docks,
buoys. It's like dirt. A flower and a cake is
magnificent, but on the floor it's dirt. And the
same is true of the following organism. Now, I
became convinced that these were magnificent
current meters. They were magnificent markers of
of water masses, and that they could tell us a great
deal about the movement of water.
Because
if you put something out for these pelagic larvae
of these organisms to settle on as they're being
carried by the water, if
one settles on this piece of stuff you've got out
there, and you see it there, and you know that it
only exists in a certain water mass, then you can
demonstrate that water mass was there.
However, to go out and sample it with temperature
and salinity probes to determine the water mass
would take thousands of dollars and many hours of
time to watch. So I figured here was a nice little
cheap way of learning an immense amount about the
marine environment. For example, if you had, say,
this is Yucatan, and you're coming up north, the
loop current and so on. And this is the Yucatan
Peninsula, and this is Cuba over here, and Florida
coming down over here. If you know that an organism
as adults only lives here and it's producing
larvae and they come in here, and if you have a
device up here on which they can settle and nothing
in between they can settle on, then you can not only
determine that the larvae are being carried this
far, but you can also determine something about
their life cycle and a lot of other intellectual
things. So I think that's important to me. We'll
get around to convincing more people, but I never
did go on with it because we got involved in deep sea
work and I couldn't go on. So, the significance?
Well, just an ad hoc thing for the Navy on that one
thing, but I think that the use of these organisms
is important. Now, let me say this, that a fellow by
the name of Shaltima at Woods Hole has done an
immense amount with the transport of pelagic
larvae across the entire Atlantic Ocean. And we
now know that there is the potential for larvae
produced in Europe to be transported in the north
equatorial current across to the Americas.
I don't know if they can get through to the shore,
but they're out there, not very far away.
What do you think of the concept of bringing the sea
to the land, that is, the development of marine
organisms in artificial environments of land, if
you should like, like Spillhouse's concept of
inland dream cities? Well, I think this is a real
promising thing, and I think it's starting right
now in West Texas. You know, there are salt domes.
in West Texas, and I think this looks like an
interesting development to me to try to raise
shrimp out in West Texas around Van Horn. That'd be
kind of fascinating. Sure, I think this is real,
and I think it's a good possibility. Could this
possibly be then one of the keys of ocean success to
population expansion in the future? Well, I think
it's... it's a move in that direction. The
difficulty is that most of the things we, we want to
culture, uh, almost, uh, end up in the gourmet food
category, you know, and I don't think that's going
to feed the world, but I'm sure it's an interesting
supplement and, and a worthwhile supplement
economically. I think it's sound. I think it's
going to extend, uh, agriculture a bit. I think
it's going to be as important as the, uh, as the fish
pond of China. And, uh, more and more will be
important. However, it is going to have to be
geographically limited because there are not
that many places you can get good saline water in
inland. Mariculture is a real hope to provide the
frosting on the cake, I think. Now, what do you
intend to be your next project? Well,
I don't know. My interest right now is, of course,
consulting with industry, trying to determine
whether or not we can make compatible use of the
sea, multiple use of the sea. That's one reason
we're having this symposium on the Continental
Shelf, because of multiple use. When I go to St.
Croix next week, it's because of a public hearing
on putting an offshore terminal on the south shore
of a beautiful island. Should it be done or
shouldn't it be done? And I think I'm one that likes
to look at trade-offs. You win a little and lose a
little. I'm afraid I have to say that I consider man
to be an important part of the world's ecosystem
and that we've got to fulfill his needs. And I guess
at the same time, I'm guided by one other thing, is
that I'm generally not so concerned about what man
does in the marine environment, but how he does it.
He's pretty sloppy at times. Now, as for the next
project, okay, it is to produce a book along with
Darnell on the continental shelves of the United
States, which we hope will be the definitive book
on the continental shelf. And by definitive, I
mean that it will do for research and knowledge of
the continental shelf what the book on estuaries
did years ago, several years ago, as a result of a
Sapelo Island conference. And we are going to
produce that book within the year, I think. That,
to me, is going to be a major undertaking. And so
that's enough to keep me happy right now. There are
a lot of research activities. I'm working on two
major research activities through the
university. for the Bureau of Land Management on
the myofauna, these minute little organisms that
live in the sediments. And so I've got enough to do
there. I've got six students working for me on that
project right now. And I'm going to report on that
in this symposium, as a matter of fact. So I would
say what I'm trying to do there is produce an
indicator of
the importance of fouling or pollution from the
extraction of oil and really attempt to find the
answer to what it's doing in the environment.
We've got an immense amount of work that's been
done in the laboratory on petroleum pollution,
but we have very little that's been done in the
field. We've come up with a method of assaying
that. And I have been invited by the USGS to
consider entering into a big activity with them
in September because of this little method we've
come up with. So I guess that's about it.